in the vegan Wars of 2019 today's
episode would be called dr. Fuhrman's
strikes back we have here a compelling
but brief article from dr. Fuhrman that
challenges and overturns many of the
most important allegations made by Jeff
Nelson Jeff Nelson is also known as veg
source now in my earlier video that on
this time zone was just yesterday that I
made commenting on this I basically said
at one point look I've had my own
conflicts with Jeff Nelson but I'm
setting that aside here and I'm giving
him the benefit of the doubt that this
is a sincere and factual conflict over
scientific claims over the process of
how peer-reviewed literature is
presented and both directly and
indirectly but the ways in which the
profit motive tends to warp both diet
and weight loss advice and vegan
activism and those are all issues I
sincerely care about what I learned
today in looking at this article coming
from dr. Fuhrman is that the opposite is
true what I should have done is put my
own negative experience with Jeff Nelson
front and center and I should say look
this is a guy I know lies this is a guy
I know to be untrustworthy this is a guy
I know to be unscrupulous and brazen and
to be a draft drama monger and so you
know what what what he says now no
matter how ostensibly trustworthy of a
peer-reviewed medical literature I have
to look at it in the context of the
negative experience I've had within
myself I didn't do that Jeff fed source
I gave you the benefit of the doubt and
I shouldn't have you're a scumbag you're
a piece of garbage
spoilers don't worry we'll get into the
details in just a moment
this is an interesting and memorable day
for me to be recording this video I'm
not upset about it um I really tend to
do my weeping in advance I when I have a
kind of horrible challenge or struggle
in my life I tend to do the agonizing
and the emotive before the struggle and
then when an act
happens when the day of the event comes
I'm not so upset but today was the
upsetting day when we went to the
hospital and found out why Jeff Nelson's
diet does not work for my girlfriend
now when I say Jeff Nelson's diet I mean
the diet that he and his daughters Nina
and Randa are supporting a diet that's
made our lives miserable for the last
six months
and some of the claims in the diet are
100% scientific some of the claims are
really just recycled from other
well-known vegan doctors like dr.
McDougall which by the way does not make
them infallible dr. mcdougal has been
wrong dr. Greger has been wrong these
are all human beings they're all
imperfect and it's worthy of criticism
and cylinder approach these things um
but once in a while he just gets into
bro science and one of the most bro
science claims of all that Jeff Nelson
is pushing and then again he is
profiting from he and his daughters this
is their family business promoting this
book and they go on tours and they give
rock concerts they play their
instruments on scrap it's you guys are
running a three-ring circus around this
diet Jeff so for you to say dr. Fuhrman
is profit motivated and you're not I
don't know
there's altruism all around and there's
also the influence of the profit motive
all around people people say I have got
the profit motive and I put up every
month exactly how little money I make
out of YouTube so if anyone here is not
being warped by the profit motive in my
case I'm making a lot less money from
this video then I think Jeff Nelson
would make from selling one book I don't
know I don't know how much admit
something maybe it's one book maybe it's
ten but hey he also was selling diet
books he is also part of the steering
service but anyway one of the most bro
science claims of all in that three-ring
circus
Jeff Nina and Randa you claim that it
doesn't matter whether or not your acne
is hormonal acne it doesn't matter the
cause of the acne in that sense it
doesn't matter shall we say the etiology
of
acne their diet is gonna cure your acne
even the first time I read that I
scoffed it seemed to me completely
ridiculous acne is a symptom and it
could be a symptom of many different
underlying conditions including in
Western society you may just have a
peanut allergy and not know it you may
have you may respond badly to nuts
giving you acne and then you try this
diet and your acne disappears and of
course you're gonna attribute that
effect to whatever the phony reasoning
is said of you in the book and that's
not a true cause and effect relationship
scientifically speaking no the reality
is you eliminated nuts from your diet
so you've got this beneficial result um
hormonal acne acne caused by a hormonal
disorder is very very fundamentally
different than acne caused by an
allergic result that hurt me an allergic
reaction to nuts and I gotta tell you
something in this couple me and my
girlfriend to us
we're examples of both if I eat peanuts
or peanut oil I will get acne
I'll get redness in my skin and other
other kind of reactions to the peanut
oil and most of the time on this channel
either have no acne or maybe there's
ones it's somewhere it's caused by
something else my diet and my girlfriend
we have confirmed today she talked to
three different specialists at the
hospital she got tests done she's gonna
make her own videos talking about it but
her acne was caused by serious
underlying hormonal problems and you
cannot solve that with Nina and randa's
diet
she is living proof long story short her
skin condition did not get better on
that diet it got worse and now we return
to the controversy of dr. Fuhrman's
response to Campbell / Nelson accusation
so T Colin Campbell is another figure in
this controversy best-selling vegan
author and researcher and Nelson refers
to Jeff Nelson
so 0.1 on this list obviously I'm not
going to read the entire article to you
point 1 is the allegation the dr.
Fuhrman falsified data in his study
published in 2008 to make himself in his
die
look good then I quote this directly and
call this room an quote though I am very
upset by the errors in the study
I had no role in the data entry
statistical analysis or calculations my
role was to allow a researcher Barbara
sarter PhD to review my patient charts
around 2002 here is a statement by dr
sardar the lead researcher of this study
quote i conducted this chart review
project is a completely independent
unfunded research activity while i was
an associate professor at the university
of southern california the research
report was published in the journal
alternative therapies in health and
medicine with my names first author
this this comes back as a controversy
right there were allegations made about
this with my chiefest first author dr.
Campbell in the middle and dr. Furman as
third author and now as was established
in jesu that was the agreed-upon
relationship right dr. Furman played no
role in the collection of the data or
the analysis the results dr. Furman was
accused of putting dr. Campbell's name
first on the study like that he switched
it up later then he later somehow
through subterfuge switch to make it
appear as if dr. Campbell was the
primary research of the study where's
Campbell only agreed to have his name
less than second but guess what this
publication they have a separate website
which is the archive of their their past
articles and on the archive site the
names are simply listed in alphabetical
and the letter C comes earlier in the
alphabet than the letter F so that was
the mystery so if you get the PDF of the
actual study you get the actual
publication the names are in the correct
agreed-upon order but if you look it up
on their archiving website you get the
names in alphabetical order that's just
their convention that's it I guess to
make the names easier to find out the
core so I guess sardars name is less
less prominent it's really tough being a
scientist whose name starts the letters
is ed I guess that's Z
those of you from the United States
American I happen to be Canadian as you
may or may not know so they give you a
screenshot of the physical copy of the
2008 journal and showing you the order
of the names
Serdar first then Colin Campbell then
joel fuhrman and they claimed that
there's actually faked screenshot that
has changed the the order of the names
now I am NOT going to back it up one way
or another the underlying issue is the
confusion with alphabetical order used
in the archive versus the act what the
actual published document looks like so
there are other specific false claims
here refuted Nelson Jeff Nelson veg
source stated that darker Serdar was an
intern paid by him and that's not true
they go over the details of that it's
already really been covered what the
what the financial and organizational
situation was number four on this list
that the allegation that dr. Fuhrman
refused to retract a study from the
journal when dr. Campbell asked me to do
so so this is not true
hmm he pulled his name off the study he
did not discuss with this with me or
give me options of how to handle this
that would have been a good idea the
fact is I phone dr. Campbell and got him
on the phone to try to ask him what else
I could do to rectify the situation
period he hung up the phone on me period
um I gotta say Campbell you agreed to
have your name on this article as second
author and from all the counts you did
zero research it sounds like you even
read the article there's no one here
thinking this is on you homeboy you did
something unethical any moral if if I
agreed to have my name on even cited as
having consulted on a pop buddhist
publication I would have vetted the hell
out of that I would have read every word
of that and I would have yelled at the
author to correct everything I disagreed
with my name appears in a couple of
books on Buddhism just like special
thanks to where it doesn't really tell
you what I did
I wanted to make a video talking about
that there's one book where the whole
chapter about poly poly and Buddhism is
completely derivative of my work and I
was paid and it just says special thanks
to and you don't actually know I'm like
the ghost off there for that chapter so
sometimes your name appears and you did
a lot of work you really were a big
influence but in this case it sounds
like you know Campbell was putting his
name on this without having read it and
then years later you regretted it well
that's on you you were supposed to have
invigilator at a minimum in vigil aidid
and check the quality of this that would
be why your name was on at a minimum or
you could have been desired you could
have been involved in designing the
study or in the research and some other
way but it sounds if you had zero
involvement and you know now he got sour
grapes man all right point six the
allegation that dr. Fuhrman lied that
the study Brazeau pardon me he law the
allegation that he lied about the
results of the study in order to
exaggerate the weight loss etc etc so
here's where the details get a bit mud
quote all of my statements about the
study outcomes were supported by the
original as well as by the corrected
data analysis the number of subjects
included was inaccurate by one that's
very different from what Jeff Nelson
claimed okay it was inaccurate by one it
says here
I reported accurately what the study
concluded in its original published
report which stated quote weight loss
appeared to be sustained in those who
returned for follow-up close quote and
this was true so again there's a cab
either of those who returned for
follow-up however many that is who came
back a lot of people maybe they didn't
come back to follow up and they were the
ones who have bad results furthermore a
review of the corrected data still
substantiates that these patients of
mine did not have significant weight
regain and my statement was not false
here is dr. sardos response based on her
published erratum and reanalysis of the
original data so i just mentioned that
also was not stated Jeff presented this
as if this article was a scam and then
it was
snowed over or covered up and that as if
dr. ferma continued citing this he did
not give any weight to the fact that the
author who was most blameworthy dr.
starter actually made a big effort to go
back and redo the analysis and correct
the errors that's part of the progress
of science that's part of the progress
of medicine even if it was bad okay well
you know she deserves sorry he he or she
he he deserves some credit for um we
should really use gender-neutral
pronouns we he deserves some credit for
going back and and and you know making a
sincere attempt to correct it which the
other coverage of this controversy did
not recognize quote I corrected these
mistakes and submitted an erratum to the
journal reporting that the actual mean
weight loss of the group so mean and
this context is average the average
weight loss the mean weight loss of the
group of eighteen who had a two-year
follow-up visit was thirty seven point
six pounds so only eighteen people came
back to the follow-up isn't it was
already hinting at that because possibly
a small number so on average they've
lost thirty seven point six pounds
the most significant weight loss
controlled within the Army occurred
within the first year of follow-up for
all participants out of the eighteen
people with two year data none regained
their original weight at two years four
had regained five pounds or less and one
person in the study had a ten pound over
again from their lowest weight so there
you go significant regain would be
defined as ten percent of original
baseline weight and using this criterion
no one were gained a significant amount
after the original Iowa significant loss
no one regained back ten percent of the
way now can you say that Jeff was
mistaken or was this a lie I'm gonna
leave it there I'll give you guys the
I'll give you guys the length of the
article not all of the allegations made
by Jeff are refuted here his kind of
more petty complaints about people
making sarcastic comments beneath his
YouTube videos who may or may not be
linked to dr. Fuhrman or may or may not
be Fuhrman himself on the very shaky
basis that they both used the
for every one finger that's pointed you
there are three fingers moment that's
not covered you know I gotta tell you my
experience with Jeff has been incredibly
negative a lot of people in the
so-called vegan community in the
so-called vegan movement have a really
negative experience with Jeff and you
know I'd like to believe he means well
I'd like to believe he's uh sincerely
mistaken and not intentionally lying and
deceiving people I'd like to believe
that he really cares about the future of
the vegan movement and that he is not
trying to create drama and controversy
just for the sake of drama controversy
Jeff if you come out and make a video
apologizing it will be possible for me
to believe that is true you should make
an apology you should make a retraction
just like the the doctor you criticized
who had to come out with another study
new analysis correcting the errors in
the original analysis and Jeff in all
the other controversies you were
involved in including your conflict with
me your classic conflict with
durianrider your conflict with quote
unquote Chantal Robin the legal action
you took against basically everybody
promoting veganism on YouTube you
possibly could in the so-called Chantal
Robin terrorism death threat mystery
affair this whole crazy thing you made
up I don't remember you coming out and
making an apology
once I don't remember you coming out
admitting that you were wrong and
obviously the case I know best is the
one that involves me Jeff you were wrong
and you know you were wrong and you know
the adult thing to do would be to take
responsibility man up and apologize and
I have seen you advising others to do
that and I've never seen you taking your
own medicine I've never seen you taking
responsibility or so
on that more scientific level Jeff if
you go back and take a look at the diet
you're promoting right now the cure acne
under all circumstances that the
promises you're making if you really go
back and do a second addition maybe
you've got to check yourself Jeff maybe
there's some bro science in there maybe
there's some wild leaps of inference
like oh yeah
in Okinawa almost nobody has acne
therefore laughable laughable
unscientific leaps of inference like
that Jeff that you used to support your
diet which has no resemblance what
people in Okinawa actually eat anyway
Jeff if you could rise to the high
standard you demand of dr. Furman and
the dr. Fuhrman is here living up to it
would be a wonder to behold for one and
all whether you did it in the sphere of
YouTube drama in the sphere of veganism
as a political movement or in the sphere
of Dietetics and nutrition I'm in
Bangkok Thailand for six more days hit
me up